This is Tim Wilson talking in the halls of the library and the gay... You were talking about the Lou Sullivan collection.
Right, which is the Gay and Latine Historical Society collection, one deposit here.
And Lou Sullivan was born a woman...
and became a gay man and set up a number of organizations, most notably the FTM International, Female to Male International, and published a few books which basically spelled out support
groups and other facilities which would be useful to women who would hire.
Sure.
And was Sullivan a San Francisco person?
And roughly when?
He settled here.
He was born elsewhere.
But certainly he lived here, and so this is how this stuff entered the library.
And when did he—is this person—is he still alive?
He is dead.
That's okay.
That's an interesting detail, though.
And what are the records?
Is that part of this particular collection?
No, those phonographs.
That's part of Special Collections.
There's a Wit and Humor collection up there.
Okay, so that's not part of this.
Although these videotapes are part of Dan Lesken.
Okay.
How is Edward III?
Edward II.
Edward II, looks like a three.
This is the Derek German film.
Oh, yeah.
Edward II and his letter and all that kind of stuff.
There you go.
You have videotapes of whatever.
Thanks, Tim.
Appreciate it.
Nice to meet you, too.
We just got the files in San Francisco history from the AIDS Office of the Health Department, and we've already had researchers.
What do you call these?
Compact shelf.
Yeah, thank you for getting that.
They just built a brand new library in Cleveland, and these things, you know.
This is special collection stuff, and then this is back to San Francisco history stuff.
These are scrapbooks from different city departments.
These are photographs from the call bulletins on the left.
These are all photographs, photographs, photographs.
Here's ephemera, old bottles, Chinese gambling paraphernalia.
pottery, gifts to mayors, boxes are full of objects.
We have building plans, architectural plans.
This is where our oversized costumes, Dianne Feinstein's wedding dress.
Oversized prints and photographs.
Dianne Feinstein's wedding dress.
Wonderful.
You're funny.
These are some of our oldest things.
These are Alcalde records, back to when it was the Mexican government here.
And these are some of the ledgers that actually survived the 1906 fire.
So these are probably the most important things in our collection.
They need a WPA archive.
No, they're not.
That's what it says.
I know, because somebody here labeled it that way.
The WPA did a survey of these, and the people here were able to figure out which volume went to the WPA survey.
Tell me once again, because I wasn't told.
These are all call day, which was before the mayor.
There was an all call day.
How do you spell it?
A-L-C-A-L-D-E.
Uh-huh.
Which?
And it goes back to the Mexican government.
Before and about it.
So this is old stuff.
Yeah, it's probably some of the older stuff we have here.
It's not old compared to the East Coast.
I understand, but what exactly, what kind of material is it?
Oh, we thought that.
It was official papers, documents.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, official papers, official city business.
Can you give me a rough idea of what the years of that would be?
Rough.
Yeah, most of it's in the 1850s.
But some of it might go back to 1840s, which would be old.
But I think older than 1680.
I know.
But for us.
Yeah.
So we have this gold.
Oh, there's some fascinating police photos.
from about the turn of the century.
I'm reading this book.
Have you ever seen Luc Sante's book, Evidence?
And he goes into a New York, he finds old glass plate narratives from the New York police.
It's fascinating.
I just got it.
It's on my desk.
Now.
It's a beautiful, S-A-M-T-E.
It's called Evidence.
And he finds these police murders, basically, and then kind of talks about what it's like to look at these photos and, oh, it's really interesting.
I love evidence.
And you love, you know, archives.
Oh, I do.
Evidence is a very... I love things.
There's so much you can... Which is why, you know, the computer's a computer, but there's so much you can tell from that.
Okay.
Bye, Tim!
Thank you!
So, yes.
Interesting.
I have a... You're welcome.
Now, where am I supposed to take you?
Maybe back to Andrea?
Okay.
You were asking me about the signage.
I said, did you find a curious lack of signage?
I see a lot of people who have their names.
They have their names on there, and visitors will say, coming into this room, they have the lasting impression that the people gave us something to do with the library collections.
this is not true they did not give one cent for any of the books or other marvelous things we have truly marvelous things here it is for furniture but the impression is that the people whose names are listed gave books and other library uh holdings to the library and this is not true that's my two cents for today i've got a lot of stuff instead of having a book list on the wall
You can figure that one out by yourself.
Ride the elevator soon.
Thank you.
Where is the sign?
This is the Marjorie G. and Carl W. Stern Book Arts and Special Collection Center.
Okay, just tell me your full name.
My name's Annette McNair.
You don't need a spelling bee.
Okay, is that okay?
Yeah, I want to be in the way of her dating.
You won't.
Okay.
No, I'm too good for that anyway.
Yeah, you might want to be in there.
You probably have a better memory.
I'm sorry.
You just want Annette McNair, A-N-N-E-T-T-E, capital M-A-C, capital N-A-I-R, right?
So you said you were a New Yorker, haven't you?
Uh-huh, yeah.
How long have you been out here?
Since the late 60s, about 66.
Really?
And working as a librarian?
Uh-huh.
Actually, I went to library school at UC Berkeley.
Really?
That's another story, isn't it?
Right, it is another story.
I'm going a little bit longer, by the way.
Library school?
Well, it's no longer called library school.
It's full of information management, right.
Does that bother you?
Of course.
I would never be—number one, I would never want to go, and number two, I probably wouldn't be admitted.
Well, because first of all, it doesn't have anything to do with books.
I'm not interested in information management.
I'm interested in libraries as an institution, and as the basis for libraries, as far as I'm concerned, for public libraries are as an educational institution.
And the School of Information Management hardly mentions libraries.
It's all about record keeping and information access rather than about contents at all.
And I think in order to be admitted, you have to have background in computer literacy, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
But the bibliography is history.
Yeah.
And there aren't any classes in bibliography, as far as I can see.
There aren't any of the classes that we took in book selection or in rare books or any of the
I hate to use the word standing, but any of the courses we took as part of librarianship, as part of, you know, getting a master's in librarianship, don't exist in this school.
Take a look at the .
.
They say that UCLA is pretty good.
I guess UCLA hasn't gone that way.
Columbia, of course, did.
Right, right.
Yeah.
.
I'm interested in that.
Okay.
I think it is part.
I think it really is part.
They're a training librarian.
Exactly.
I mean, that is the part of it.
And here, I mean, so in California, basically just have UCLA down south.
And I really don't know what they're doing.
I haven't heard about it.
I just talked to Susan.
She mentioned that UCLA is still prison.
Susan Goldstein?
Yeah, and she went to Bradyville.
Yeah.
So I don't, yeah.
I don't know.
Well, I know San Jose seems to be neither here nor there.
Well, he's teaching.
Yeah, I heard the so-called teaching.
I have no idea what he's teaching, because he doesn't believe in libraries, you know?
Well, it's on the net.
This course is checking out the gasoline until all night.
Oh, good.
Take a wake-up pill.
They're going to have a lot of clothing.
I was with Tilly for three hours last night.
Three hours.
She's wonderful.
Tilly Olsen?
Yeah.
Oh, good, yeah.
She said, what do you want to say about it?
I said, you just talk.
I'm up here to listen.
So you're really, yeah, you're getting a good spectrum.
I saw Mr. Colter the other day.
And he's a spectrum.
He is, no, that one person, he's very interesting.
I think he's like the focus of a lot of what's happened here.
And this is way back in 89, when we had the earthquake, was my first real, quote, interaction with him, and he was completely uncaring about what staff had to say, wouldn't listen to anything, ran meetings in the most authoritarian, fascistic manner almost, you know, completely had to be in complete control.
of every single meeting of the commission, wouldn't hear about what was really going on.
The library closed for three months because they wanted to reorganize, and we spoke about what was involved and what the meaning of.
I didn't want to hear anything.
Well, and he named you all, by the way, so I know who you've been talking to, as you know.
I've been trying to talk to everyone, so I said, with a name, a dozen names, you can probably write on ten of them, you know.
But he named your name, and he named
Kathy, and he named Melissa, you know, and I gave him an opportunity to temper his remark about the white women.
Right, right.
Talk levels.
He didn't at all.
I stand by it, and he accused me, actually, of being racist.
Homophobic, right.
Homophobic, antisemitic.
So I'm telling you this both on, and I'll give you an opportunity to respond to his continued
It's amazing to me.
Yeah, exactly.
It's amazing that he's saying this.
And what is he basing all of this?
I mean, what is his evidence?
Because we oppose what he wants to do on Earth.
The way you defend yourself sometimes is you attack.
Right, yeah, obviously, yeah.
It's the polygraph, the metaphor, you know, and what else are you going to say?
Well, we remind him of 30s radical, and I said, well, thank you of reminding us that the class struggle still exists.
I thought it was all over.
We're creating a class struggle.
But I think on the basis, you're saying, you know, the basis of what this is all about,
is the fact that he really wants to establish the entrepreneurial library.
He's represented the library without anyone, I mean, I don't know who's appointed him as a representative to all these entrepreneurial library discussion groups that they've had and workshops, et cetera.
And he's come out all the time and saying, yes, we have to have private funding.
Now, this is a big public policy issue.
It's never been discussed.
Who decided this?
It was him.
It wasn't even the commissioners decided this.
Dallin and him had decided we were going to have a public-private partnership.
And then we disagreed with him.
That's when we came under, when we disagreed because we believed in a library being for everyone.
But what you have to do on private funding, I mean, you know, as I mentioned, and you're from New York.
Right.
As I mentioned to Andrea, you know,
The New York Public Library, called Leclerc, raises $30 million a year.
But it's a different library.
But it is a private library.
Yeah, it is a private library.
This is the public library.
I mean, basically, when they had the proposal for this building proposition or the bond issue for this building, nothing was mentioned about private funding.
This was going to be a public building and was basically going to go for books and staff.
There was nothing else mentioned.
And also, the kind of...
projection of how the building would be publicly owned by the public, you know, in terms of the public bond issue, but that the interior would be privately raised.
Now, I don't even know if that's in the original
Proposition, was it?
Of the MOU?
No, no, the original bond issue.
Oh, the bond issue?
I don't think the bond issue doesn't mention, even private funds, doesn't mention anything about... But you acknowledge that raising some private money is not a bad thing.
Well, it has to be discussed, because it all goes back, and I'm going to recommend an article you might want to read.
I think really good for whatever you're trying to do.
And this is in Metropolis.
I don't know what I'm trying to do.
In Metropolis.
Read this one.
I think it's good background.
It's in Metropolis for March 1996.
That's the name of the magazine?
Yeah, and it's about library building and libraries of the future.
March 1996.
Right.
Metropolis, and we have it here.
You want to look at it?
It's a great article because it talks about all the bond issues that are going for buildings and what that's really going to cost, the library in the future.
I think, yeah, what it really means, what does it really mean, the public library?
I mean, we've talked about undue influence.
We've talked about libraries being taken out of the control of the people.
And we really believe in a public-public partnership.
And there are an awful lot of issues surrounding this, and the issues haven't been discussed.
We were never included in any of that.
That's the point.
Exactly.
Nothing has been discussed.
And they created this foundation, which you might notice as the interlocking directorate of all these other so-called non-profit foundations.
There's no accountability.
They're non-profit, but they're not a membership group.
So there's no accountability.
We don't have the funds.
No accountability.
I didn't realize that you can't join it.
That's right, you can't, no, no.
That's very interesting.
It's not a membership organization.
So it's by invitation or by selection?
Right, or by donation.
Or even by donation, it's not certain that you can join it.
Right, yeah.
And it's a very selective group.
Yeah, yeah, self-selecting.
And do you think this foundation is basically returning the future in the direction of this library?
They've tried to.
And it's because of the library staff and the public that they haven't been successful.
It's been very unclear as to what they're raising money for, how they're raising.
There's so many issues, and just in terms of all these centers, basically they were saying, well, if you want a collection, you donate money for the collection.
So we have this, yeah.
So everything's being market-driven or driven by money.
Everything is being also driven by those who donate money to collections.
So the entire sense of the library is... And the sense of our control, you know, of our librarians controlling it,
It is completely out of closure because
Even physically, you have, one of the reasons we don't have room is that we have all these special centers, which are just spaces right now, and whoever contributed all this money, they have a space, but where they don't have, the collection is duplicate, yeah, the collection is duplicate of what we have, they don't have staff, etc.
And mind those, if you have money, like American Indians don't have money, so they don't have a collection, the Jews don't have a collection, the Arabs don't have a collection, the Palestinians, I mean, all of that,
is due to the foundation not having its own way in the sense of how it was going to raise money.
It does seem to me that the intellectual direction is being determined by
who has the money to sell in Filipino.
That's right.
Absolutely.
It's driven by the donation.
This is a very interesting collection that we can get.
Maybe we can be on the cutting edge of this is where New Silicon Valley became.
It's not about content.
Yeah, we can get some stuff.
Right.
And that's also Dallin's vision is not about content.
And also, yeah, Dallin doesn't feel...
The library is an intellectual source.
Can I ask him that?
Yeah, right.
Ask him what?
Well, basically, he has stated in American libraries that librarians need to change their attitude from content to access.
That's all we should be interested in is access.
Forget content.
Content is whatever... Meaningless.
Yeah, it's whatever is being contributed.
Let's change perspective from content
to access, which, of course, access is a word they use on here.
Oh, I know.
Oh, it's disgraceful.
It means nothing.
It means horrible.
That's the underground logo.
I just covered mine.
Anyway, and there's so many issues.
So just getting back to the building and donations and philanthropy, et cetera, what this article talks about is the fact
that communities are supporting, you know, these big bond issues for buildings, but no one is really talking about what library planners, he mentions old-time, so-called, quote, old-time library planners, that he said, they're going to be, really have regrets in five to ten years as to what maintenance of these buildings consists of.
And we don't even have to wait five years.
We waited one year.
We waited one month.
And we knew that most of the bulk of what this building costs to maintain.
And as librarians, we raised questions.
Years and years ago, we were just talking about it.
We were saying, do you have a staffing pattern?
What about the cost of all of the maintenance of the building?
And we'll just have to wait.
We'll have to see what the budget does.
It was all very vague.
I mean, there's a concern.
you know, as to what we knew was going to come down, and we're going to compress, we're going to coalesce the collections, so it's come to such a really dumbing down of the scholarship nature of a library that, um, that humanities, at one point, one floor is humanities, literature, it was gardening, forces of history, biography, all in one, one
very difficult to use plan and floor, no space for any books,
Librarians were supposed to be ads from all those areas as though they had equal values.
And then these special collections that people donated.
Right.
People donated.
You know, these special collections.
Well, those had all the space.
That was taken up a lot of the room.
So we were driven by those concepts of what people, you want a collection?
Fine.
Give us some money and we'll give you a collection.
But there wasn't even any thought to the really rich collections of
of the collections and the old departments, the literature and the history department that became the humanities department.
There was no thought to what the collections held as part of the older collections and how they could grow accordingly.
No, it was mushed down.
And we did have strength.
We had enormous strength, you know, in literature, poetry.
drama, you know, the plays, a drama, history, biographies.
And these are recent published books.
No, no, no, we're talking, we're talking, well, for instance, the locked case books that used to be in the humanities department that are now in Brooks Hall,
They were anywhere from the 16th to the 19th to the 20th centuries.
There were 16th century books down there?
Well, not too many anymore since they got transferred up to my department.
I didn't see any of them.
No, we transferred about them.
Can you get me some titles of books that you've written down there?
Oh, I'll show them to you.
If you can come back up, I'll show you.
Oh, yeah.
And not only that, in poetry and in literature, what we used to buy was a lot of non-mainstream material.
We were known as the small press poetry collection.
Nothing is done that way, no.
We have some of it, but we're not continuing that because there isn't any money.
I mean, we're just getting mainstream stuff.
Can you get the names of some of these poets that you have?
Sure.
They're in Brooks Hall also, in the Mekon section.
The detail I need is essentially the same.
Yeah, exactly.
But you have a very interesting perspective.
You've been here for 30 plus years.
Not in the library, but in San Francisco.
I've only been librarian.
Well, I came here in 68 for a year, and then I was in various other libraries, and I've been here for 12 years, 11 years.
We worked in the same department.
But you have a perspective.
Right, right.
of librarianship, you know, of the development.
So, do you have any comments on that?
Yeah.
Well, basically, I just kind of feel that one of the reasons I went into librarianship, and many of us did, was, to use the point sharing, was that we saw this was the People's University.
Essentially, it wasn't just mass market buying and trendy centers and donor centers, etc.
That the basis was this was an alternative education institution.
and a rich one too, rich in selections of materials.
And we also, at that time when I first entered, we were buying on a university level, like even in literature and literary criticism, etc.
Yes, and now all of a sudden it's unclear, but it turns out
with our limited budget, that we can even barely get the mainstream stuff that's in LJ.
You know, that's kind of just basically reviewed in LJ.
We used to go to all sorts of different sources.
I got catalogs from the small press and from... So that's basically how acquisitions are driven, and how you read a review and publishes weekly, a leverage, or something like that.
And basically, a monthly selection list, which is what the branches order from, is what the main library now, our big department,
is practically every set, every Dewey number, well, it's changing now because it's a total mess and hadn't worked, but it had been every Dewey number, is now by branch list rather than, we used to generate the list and maybe just pick up popular stuff, you know, like we thought we should have.
But, you know, basically we were an enriched, enriched collection, and now it's barely even a basic collection.
And then certain
All of a sudden, certain people are still buying, but the business department, they buy all over the damn place.
They have a huge budget.
The business department's budget is more than, I think, the entire general collection.
Well, it's a continuation of the Dowling vision, where they're a focused collection, and humanities is just the level of access.
So, yeah, the concept of focused collections, I don't know what that means.
I know how much money is for doing this.
Can we get a copy of the budget?
Yeah, I've got a copy.
I can make a copy of it for you.
The latest budget, it's pretty disheartening.
Very disheartening.
Can I get a couple of this one and the last one?
The last one, I'm trying to think.
I'd love to see how it's changed over here.
Well, actually, the one you should take a look at is the 94, or 94?
Yeah, right.
My Book Arts and Special Collections had $20,000.
Yeah, but also he should even look like it was 88 or 89.
Yeah, I know, absolutely.
What we were doing, you know, literature departments, and we were able to... They should have it on record.
We should have it on record for the budget, you know.
I was like, look at the 88 budget.
Yeah, look at it.
Before he came.
Exactly.
All of this, it was interesting enough.
This is going to be some of the stuff that... Who's the gentleman?
Kerwin.
Jim Kerwin.
Biller.
Walter.
Oh, I don't know if he'll have... He's sending me boxes of them.
i know and then and then guess where guess who gets it after you he has a lot of sending it i think it's i think he said he would like it i think you're walking you're walking out because i think he's got a lot of stuff he's always at his house yesterday it's just amazing he's gonna send a ups actually simply tell me do you have like do you have
Like everything that happened at the earthquake time?
Because that was, interestingly enough, it was an act of God.
That really helped all of us along.
Helped.
It didn't help us along.
No, no, it helped us along.
It helped, yeah.
Helped the, you know, whatever it is.
Well, in our files, in the archives, in the SFPL archives, there's a lot of stuff.
You know, newspaper clippings from that period.
Because when Dallin first came in 88, and he came to the literature department,
And I had some weird doubts about him.
He was hired, actually, to create this new building, this new library.
And his concepts, even then, were so frightening that I was reading, when I went to, I did read The Electronic Library.
And you have read that.
Have you looked at this?
And he says, you know, libraries are passed out.
And we started asking questions.
Like, what's the role of librarians?
I mean, we've developed subject expertise.
You know, we're interested in equality in desk collections.
We see our function as educational.
You know, what's going to happen?
He says, oh, well, we'll have these volunteered, retired scholars in residence.
And what are librarians supposed to do?
Well, you're going to manage, we're going to have fewer librarians.
Immediately, he started cutting staff.
I mean, his first proposal, the first time there was a city budget crisis, and the departments were asked to just look at their budgets.
No other department in the city recommended cutting staff, and he did.
He said, and he cut.
He cut staff right immediately.
Well, certain administrations left them.
Immediately cut staff.
I remember even writing, I guess we have a whole list of that.
Check it out.
I'm curious how much staff he cut.
He cut.
Well, at that point, he was going to cut a lot.
He didn't replace people, but he did cut, and then...
Then there was a big plus, thanks, reunion, et cetera, and he had to rehire practically everybody.
He had to rehire.
But his first suggestion was to cut staff, and he always talks about the biggest service points.
He thought on the third floor, we would have one person at each, one desk for the entire floor, for all these subject areas, and have one person, one librarian at least, so-called, he didn't even call them
reference, we call them service points, you know, so they were, it was like a floor plan.
And he does talk about the library as a mall, because the library is the mall.
Oh, mall of the mind.
Mall of the mind.
Because I quoted Susan Sontag, yeah, I quoted Susan Sontag, who said that she went to the Chicago Public Library, the Chicago Public Library, and she said, I always conceived of the library as a theater of the mind.
I said, I consider it as a mall of the mind.
That's right.
Chicago Public Library.
Yeah, because it was a program on libraries and librarianship, and so I've been just, and just a library has so many different levels.
It's like a theater of the mind.
Sure.
I mean, that was her kind of metaphor.
I'm hoping they don't have to deal with her.
Oh, good.
Oh, great.
Yeah.
Oh.
I just didn't want you to send her two weeks ago for this new book.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, because she was really, she was, this was about libraries, and she was mentioning, and... You were there?
It was on the radio.
When was it?
Two or three years ago.
Yeah.
When Chicago Public.
It's when we were still, just before we were moving in here.
Yeah.
And they still have literature department, the history department.
Exactly.
And this guy here.
This is Roberto, who said, oh, that's the most dysfunctional library.
I mean, he's like, you have libraries, them all, you know, just go shop.
This is Roberto, the acting chief of Maine.
You haven't interviewed him yet?
He called the Chicago Public Library.
I haven't been there, so I can't comment.
He said, we won't be the same.
This was just while we were planning, quote-unquote, for this library.
He says, because we're planning.
We're planning a big mess.
This is a template.
We're planning.
Oh, that was the other term.
The template.
Oh, the template.
I never hear that word again.
I'll be happy.
Template is used like when you're doing quilting, and it's a pattern so that you'll fit it in.
You know, it's like a metal...
triangle if you're going to use it in a quilt pattern.
So you make sure that you create this pattern piece so the pattern won't be correct.
So it matches there.
So it matches, so it'll fit in.
So they try to do, after the earthquake, with the old main library.
The biggest main there was a reorganization, was a template for the new main.
So first of all, you said it isn't a template because it's not equal.
I mean, you do a pattern for a piece that is similar, you know, what you want.
The old man was not similar to this at all, so even the term was in the book.
I mean, why use the word template?
Well, we all understood this, but we couldn't understand why they didn't understand.
Because it wasn't anything like what this was going to be like.
But it was like, well, it was a template for a mess.
I mean, what do you do at the wedding?
I'm the Reference Librarian at the General Collections and Humanities Department.
Some of us refuse to call it General Collections, we call it Humanities.
I always actually say Humanities and General Collections, that General Collections means nothing.
It means nothing, because it isn't the General Collection.
And this is the General Collection used to be, it's now...
A conglomerate.
You're telling me the other way.
Yes.
Literature.
Literature and religion.
What was the other one?
Biopathy, history, and social sciences.
And the humanities.
And then they were merged.
That was the great merger of the earthquake.
They merged with sports.
After the earthquake, they merged it with sports.
The general collection is also sports.
Sports.
No, no.
Sports in the new Maine.
Yeah.
In the new Maine, they further merged humanities with sports, science,
Recreation, all recreation, cookery, cooking, gardening, sewing, dogs.
Pets, plants, three peas.
Pets, plants.
What are some of the others that they have?
What are some of the other collections?
Art and music.
I mean, that's separate, not part of general.
That's right.
Art and music are separate, and then business and technology are separate.
They remain intact.
They remain intact, right.
In fact, they've got more money, more... Now, why do you suppose that is?
Well, one of the reasons is that art and music fought ferociously to maintain their...
the scholarly element in their collections.
How did they manage to win, though?
Well, they had a pretty tough department head for a very long time, and it must have rubbed off on the entire staff because they just refused to go along with the process.
Yeah, well, I asked that question to Kathy Page, just in terms of how it's decided that we have certain departments, you know, we maintain their integrity, and ours was just, well,
Actually, Mr. Dallin thought the entire library should be just one big general collection, but he was persuaded, and we don't know how he was persuaded, and I think partially is because
They had a donation of the sheet music.
Oh, that's right.
See, it's run by donors.
He had a donation for sheet music.
Oh, and the Steve Silver Room.
Right.
And the Steve Silver Room, so they had donations.
Well, that partially is true, but they also had, they had very, those staff members, those librarians.
Yeah, I don't think he would move, because I don't know whether Andrea showed up, because we had a petition even up to the very end.
saying that this conglomeration, this general reference of leveling of access is not going to work.
This is the 91 petition.
This is the 95 petition about the mega department.
He called it a mega department.
I'm putting everything in this envelope for you, okay?
Including the recent report on the humidity and environmental conditions at Book Hall.
He's getting a headache.
Please get you a headache right away.
We've all had a headache at the opening.
You see, it's an attempt.
It's an attempt in Donald's mind, because he's a man, actually, he's very limited.
He's a Philistine, really.
No, he's a barbarian.
Very limited.
Technologically, I mean, no one even knows.
He's sort of the pastiche of, who's that, Naismith?
and the Third Way.
Oh, yeah.
Is it Naismith?
Yeah, Topler, Topler, yeah.
Topler, and is it Naismith?
Is it Jim Naismith?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, you know those people.
So that piece of books, and even that is, well, he's stuck in a time war.
Well, he's not even stuck.
He's really kind of a very illiterate person, basically.
And I think he's really opposed to culture, to libraries, and to popular control.
Anti-book.
I was with Nick Blinker yesterday, and he has a
We finally got the computer thing of the books, you know, the 19,000 last books.
Right.
And I said, all right, this is 18, 19, 19.
Did they have a record of all the books that were sent?
I mean, do you at least keep a record of them?
No.
Do we know that that has some value?
Yes, it does, yes.
Even if we've gotten rid of them.
So we're not knowing at some point.
That we did have them.
Exactly, yes.
That's intellectually inexcusable.
It is.
And he said, well, that's because it's anti-intellectual.
And underneath it all, this is Del, I mean, is kind of a nasty piece.
He really is a nasty piece of work, because he can understand intellectual discourse among librarians.
So he thinks, basically, you know.
That you're the enemy.
Right, yeah.
But this goes for both Del and Colter.
They're two of them.
They're partners in all of them.
I always take a question.
He was basically ready for everything I asked him.
He had a good answer for everything.
But the one that kind of stuck in his tracks was, I said, what books do you read?
That's the only question I want to ask him.
What's the last book you read Mr. Colter, quickly?
He couldn't give me a title.
Oh, I've read hundreds of books in my house.
I said, well, can you describe your library for me?
I shouldn't have been smiling, but I was.
He's got a lot of science fiction apparently.
He likes science fiction.
No.
No, he doesn't.
He doesn't have it from this line.
Not from this line.
He doesn't have it from here.
He doesn't have a library card here.
I mean, we have it.
I mean, it's hard for us to check.
Yeah.
Oh, we can check that.
I don't want the card.
No.
We can.
We could fix everything.
No, no.
We can get into the circulation first.
Well, it's been checked out anyhow.
People don't have a library card.
No, that's one of the questions I was going to ask.
Many poppers have checked already.
I was going to ask the last commission.
Yeah, that's right.
At the last commission meeting, I was going to...
to the first thing.
Quickly now, what book are you reading right now?
Well, what was the last book you read?
I didn't want to do that conversation.
I just said, gee, you know, tell me he's a state rep from Nevada, Fort Turner from Rio.
So what?
Well, this is the background.
But that doesn't mean anything.
No, no, no, first it does not.
And I said, but can you give me some idea how it was that you were selected to have this board?
I said, generally speaking, you get people
You know, I know I'm the past president of the Friends, I've got it live in the Clark University.
That was a perfect choice for that.
I believe my life is books.
I care about books.
I care about my boys.
So, how did you, as a PR man, he couldn't even give me a job description for what he does for the whole book I mean.
Well, it's public relations, but it's really not public relations.
It's community relations.
Outreach.
How does a powerful company deal with AIDS?
You know, just dare me to question him on that one.
You know, that's a political thing.
But my point is, he's a piano.
But that, you know, in a way... It's so ironic.
But it's so ironic.
It's also that he's... He's a flatman.
He's to get the business for the club.
I mean, get him in a comic library.
I mean, do you know what... I guess Walter will give you this.
You know what our phone bill has been?
I mean, there's that connection.
He obviously has conflicts of interest, and he keeps denying it, because he doesn't have any interest in the library than the decision.
And that's why you should speak with John Barry at LJ, also.
John Barry, the editor-in-chief.
He's very clear on the whole conflict of interest.
He understands it.
Has he written about it here?
The conflict of interest?
Not yet.
He knows about the story of Chris.
Well, he has a little bit that he sent us.
Well, the role of the radical.
No, he has that bit that he sent us.
The fact that the Pacific Bell is now being taken over by this SBC who is against libraries having discounts, libraries and schools having discounts on technology.
No, I think he did.
I don't think he's smart.
I think he's
PR, very PR-oriented.
And he has friends.
The point is that he does have friends in city government.
Yeah.
But he's caused a fear.
Barbara Kelsman is the head of the Board of Superbloges.
He's worked on her campaign committee for re-election, et cetera.
So we have Klaus.
But as far as... And Klaus has contributed to Willie Brown's campaign.
He should be working with the community because he's caused such devastation.
Well, for instance, then...
The people who have been most carried by this building are the serious readers.
Everyone else has been catered to.
People, the donors, the so-called non-readers, etc., which we should.
but the serious reader has been completely disregarded.
And that's it.
The people who... That's been really the unkindest cut has been to the serious... To our everlasting sadness, because we thought from the very beginning we raised questions about all of this.
We raised questions about the role of the Humanities Department.
We raised questions about...
you know, its strengths, and the community, the literary community, and all of this, and how it was going, how the New Main Library was going to include them.
Never any answer.
There's never any dialogue going on between Dow and staff.
We were all talking for ourselves.
Okay, good.
I'm looking for another one.
We were talking for ourselves.
Conversation, conversation.
Discourse is great.
And, yeah, he just rolls her eyes.
And every time there's this big sigh from Coulter, we get up in the commission meeting.
It's as though, oh, don't bother me.
It's just a waste of time.
Yeah, but she said she actually applied.
She wanted to be on the citizens' advisory committee.
Yeah, right.
And who's more qualified in this woman?
Well, we have problems with that.
Not her, but, yeah.
About it being implemented.
It's removing...
the professionals from the front they think, you know?
It's creating another layer.
Yeah, it's not going to do our work, it's like... To put it in football, I mean, you don't let...
one of the alumni call the place.
I mean, the coach calls the place.
That's the job.
Exactly.
It's not letting us do our work, basically.
It's censoring our work.
It's basically censoring our work.
Work is trained to do right now.
Yeah, exactly.
And we have experience.
And this is what we do.
We do.
We're obviously tuned into what the needs are.
I mean, this is what our training and our experience and our background and our commitments are.
We don't need another sensor, another thing.
Oh, this woman, a cook.
The last outposts of scoundrels.
These are desperate people.
He's not questioning what he's saying.
He's just questioning his use of terms.
I mean, basically,
We can take what he says.
He's calling all these people names, including us, because he cannot do what he wants to be like.
And what?
Where's the evidence?
I asked him that because you don't reach out.
I said, well, reach out.
They're librarians.
They embrace.
Every single day.
My answer is they embrace.
They don't run down the street and grab you by the neck.
The material is there.
People come.
We do it in many different ways.
And who does he reach out?
He has no idea.
He's using that term because there's no evidence that we don't reach out.
First of all, what does that mean?
It's actually pretty sad.
Actually, he's just using clichés and doesn't really respond to anything, to any idea.
And then what he said was, and I said, well, tell me how you came to this design.
And he traveled, he told me about his travels.
The entire library would be the gay Schumberg.
First of all, there's a new gay center being built.
It has all of this.
This represents a commonality.
This is part of the discourse.
Okay, that's intellectually defensible.
It's straight.
But that's not what he has in the 90s.
He said, look at the picture of the beautiful ceiling.
You don't even have that girl in there.
No, no, no.
And it's dispersed all over.
Well, that's why it's fine.
But the problem is that
He is narrowly focused on one thing.
Everything else can go to hell.
No, and it's not only that.
It's also the fact that he got a real gay billionaire to contribute a lot of money, the Hormel Collection.
No, it's not a collection.
It's not a collection.
We have people calling and saying, is this the Hormel Library?
No, it isn't the Hormel Library.
It doesn't even have a Hormel Collection yet.
It's not a Hormel.
It's the Hormel Room.
No, it was great.
At least at the University of Texas, they made rooms after people, but there's books in there.
I mean, there are collections.
That's how you got your name on the room down there.
There's a collection that went in there.
Yeah.
But on the other hand, yeah, I mean, I have a real problem because there isn't, to use the expression, there isn't a homogenetic, like a community.
There are all kinds of people, like, you know, Richard J. Griequist.
People do question this kind of emphasis on having these specialized
kind of bulking on his collection, and that's another big issue that's never been discussed.
He just went ahead and chose his donors, you know, and what he wanted to have, and he said, oh, you know, wonderful, you have these special collections.
I could pick something that you might like to have, you know, to contribute to, and that's how these affinity things... So-called affinity, yeah, he created, you know... I asked where that phrase came from, and he said something like somebody else.
Probably down in the Affinity Collection.
But it's also, they're arbitrarily designed, you know, arbitrarily developed.
Basis of it is donor, is money, not really based upon where we were or where we were planning.
And my concept of donor is like, there is like a Jewish, a new Jewish book center out in Massachusetts, not in your area like it.
I don't know whether you're from Amherst or Amherst.
Oh, okay, so I'm a member, right, yes, I'm a member.
Oh, really?
Okay, well I haven't read the book, I admit it.
But at any rate, at any rate, when you donate there, it's, first of all,
really knowing my sort of my background if you donate a lot of it is that you don't even have to have your name you donate and i know people who've donated for that to the jewish book center say you don't even have to have my name i mean i'm donating it and it's not it's not to to kind of control a collection i'm donating to the university mostly detached you know i'm doing it for for the institution you know for the group etc etc here it was
People donated, and they even attacked, and this is the foundation, controlled, like, what the centers would be, where the money would go.
So they have, you know, a Chevron team center, and they have the, um, Bank of America, the Fisher Children's Center, and all of that.
I'd like to go take care of yourself all of them.
I think the foundation would have it.
All the different names, people, things, and stuff.
Is this something I have to go into IT?
No, the floor plan includes all the different names.
Can I get that?
Yeah, I'm just trying to think whether the Chevron Team Center and Bank of America.
Bank of America Job Center.
Actually, they just can 10,000.
No, no.
You have to be the Kodak.
It's the things on film.
You go to the crap thing, because we're talking about getting rid of the farmer.
See, and that's what Colta doesn't like, that we're objecting to the corporatization, that's a word, of a public institution.
Right, that's good.
Corporatization.
That conversation is good, exactly.
I'm sure he'd agree with us.
Promo, absolutely.
If you pay, you can put up a thing that will set up.
And guess what?
And they did The Hunchback of Notre Dame, but they never had any books down there of the novel.
They never had any of them.
When they produced The Hunchback of Notre Dame based upon Victor Hugo's novel.
Who produced it?
Disney.
They were selling all over the place.
Esmeralda, all the toy figures, marketing everything, but never in any of the shops did they have a novel.
And I guess that's also what it boils up to.
It's the marketing of the last public culture.
Disney-fying.
That wonderful area in Virginia, the Civil War balance.
Oh, Manassas.
Mickey does America.
Guess what?
We won.
We won the war.
Next case.
Mickey does America.
It's the Great Dumb and Down.
It's the Great Dumb and Down combined with
with the marketing, it was such a, you know, of a vital, lasting, vital public, truly democratic institution.
And Coles would say, well, this is a democratic institution.
And we say, well, yeah, this is the last great democratic.
And what he talks about is not democratic control or public input, et cetera.
It means that, yeah, it means that everybody can go in here.
Well, everybody can go into the market, too, you know.
If you let people talk for three minutes and you don't even identify what the speaker is in the minutes,
This is not democratic process.
Speaking of democratic process, when he had a meeting when the earthquake came, and he had a list of speakers, and I was, like, number two, and he just skipped me.
And I said, excuse me, why are you skipping me?
You know, people were going to sign up Coulter.
And now he runs a meeting, like, you know, dictatorial, fascist.
And, in fact, one of the members of the community called him, he was just a simple fascist.
Now, I think that trivializes him, but he's incipient.
So, just the way he runs, the controls.
Both, both, both.
And, you know, he needs the control.
And he's very, you know, he's very smug about, he's very verbal, you know, and he can always control this.
And I said, well, here's a list of people.
Everybody signs up.
I sign up.
And he just gives me, I said, excuse me, I think I'm next on the list.
He says, I prefer not to call you.
I said, why?
You have a list to sign up.
He said, I don't want to hear from staff.
Quote, I don't want to hear from staff.
I want to hear the public.
And I think even someone from the public was going to cede me her space.
And he said, no, I've decided that I don't want to hear from staff.
What he said, and I will put this to you, because I'm just telling you something else.
And I mentioned all the backlog of books and all that.
And he suggested it was sabotage from the part of staff.
Because of the book?
Yeah, because of staff.
staffing or concern about staffing, hiring shelters as opposed to pagers.
They started that.
He started it.
They started it.
And he said that.
My sentence is, I can't prove it.
He says, but I would be surprised if there was the staff deliberately doing that to make it look bad.
No.
What happened is, yes, that's... Could we tell him that... But what I'm saying is he suggested that.
Yeah.
But what I would suggest is that this whole shelver versus page business, crossing the backlog... Which Gina said there will be those shelvers.
Which she what?
She said today there will be those shelvers.
There will be pages.
Right.
I asked her about that this morning, you know, whether we're going to have this new prep category.
She said no.
No, no, no.
There was money in the budget, last year's budget, for $150,000.
Because they had money.
Who are these pages?
New Yorkers.
All they wanted to do was create a new tier system from the very beginning.
And they said, where is that money that was always earmarked for the pages?
It's there, it's there.
And finally, why aren't we hiring?
It's been good.
It's been used.
And it wasn't Coulter who said that.
It was David Price who is no longer with us.
He's in West Virginia now.
But he said that when we were in a labor management meeting arguing for it,
to protect the library pages, to continue to do the work they always had been done at the same rate of pay, but because they wanted to spend the money on other things other than personnel.
They had to.
Do you know what they had?
$92,000.
Just for bulbs, not for labor.
$92,000 for every, was it a year?
$92,000, not including labor.
Not including labor.
Take care of the lighting.
I never knew that.
That's not the electrical process.
Just the light bulbs.
Replacing the bulbs.
Replacing all the lighting.
Right.
Not the cause of electricity.
So, and at any rate, see, this is the basic distress.
So this man should not be part of the commission where he thinks that staff is out to set.
How many times have he told him that they wouldn't listen?
At meetings, there isn't any room.
Where is your staffing pattern?
The way you have the same, there isn't enough room for what we have, plus growth.
But the problem is also that we met with them in good faith, and time after time after time, they lied to us, and they stole them.
We took that money out and they used it for something else other than the people who were supposed to be hired.
People who were supposed to be hired for that money.
So they did that deliberately.
And we pushed that.
And how many times did we sit, I mean, I was telling Andrea and some other people, remember how four years ago I asked what was, I mean, meeting after meeting after meeting, I asked, what is a staffing plan?
Do you have a staffing plan for the library, et cetera?
And when you get up, they roll their eyes.
They don't even listen.
They don't even talk about the issues.
So it's as though here we are.
This is the kind of scenario is where the token opposition, so it doesn't matter what we say, we're just going to get up at a point.
You never discuss the content.
Again, content doesn't matter.
But it was always, as far as a lot of us are concerned, it was always planned to go this way.
So no matter what opposition, no matter who brought up any questions, they were going to assure you.
I mean, he doesn't understand that the, or they don't understand the concept of consensus.
means you come to something that everybody, there are differences of opinion, doesn't make one right, one wrong, but you come to a consensus of what everybody can live with.
That's the process.
But no, you know, the plan had been established, and it was to have this monument.
And I think that line, I don't know whether Andrea gave me that line from the Samson of the Bay Guardian, it's kind of a mind-numbing monument to
It's a wonderful line.
It sums it up closely.
Oh, I get it.
It's in the Bay Guardian from last week.
Can you write that down?
San Francisco Bay Guardian.
A library that was disastrously, yeah.
A mind-numbing, a mind-numbing, sterile technology, sterile technology before books.
A mind-numbing monument, right.
Who wrote this?
Ron Perrin.
A reporter.
C-U-R-R-A-N.
Right.
A mind-numbing monument to sterile technology before books.
Technology before books?
Before books, you know.
And also, disastrously,
planned, and when it says disastrously planned.
He's the Bay Guardian, one of the Bay Guardian reporters.
He is very interested in doing stories on the library, and also not only because he's interested, but because he's a library user.
He's a library user, and he says, he can't stand coming in here.
And that makes me feel sad, too, because then we miss out.
I miss out.
We really like working with these people, and I miss seeing all our regulars.
And what's happened is the library has deterred, as they were saying, again, coming back to the serious reader.
And the Tilly Olsen can't stand coming to this place anymore.
Well, people have actually given up.
I mean, people come, and it really is such a deterrent.
It really is a deterrent to the serious reader.
The collections have been so diluted by it.
It's difficult to use.
It's noisy.
It's not a refuge anymore for quiet, for study, for research.
It's noisy, ill-planned.
Material books aren't available.
They're dispersed widely dispersed.
Let me see if I can contact the architect.
Ooh.
See if she's going to be around.
Which one?
Kathy Simon.
Kathy Simon, Martin, Winklestein, Dave Morris.
Oh, I think I said it right.
Oh, good for you.
I just barely remember her name.
But she's the one who signed it, right?
Yeah.
internal structure she designed over.
James Hingofre designed the... I am here.
No.
It's my implicit as I am Pei.
Yeah, remember the disastrous John Hancock Building?
Well, he called it the Flywood Building.
Well, he did the Holocaust with him, too.
Do you know why they called it the Flywood Building?
Because the windows kept popping out.
Killing people!
I don't know if they actually killed people.
And this is another fixation that library architects have, that they need atriums.
This place is so noisy.
The noise rises from the bottom up to our floor and the fourth floor, that after an hour, librarians are suffering.
We feel we have to get off the desk because we feel like we're just getting polluted.
It is such an incessant noise that it is such a deterrent, actually, to anyone, even
doing any quiet type of study.
Now, they have these special rooms of the din.
Yeah.
The din.
It's a din.
She said, quiet is gone.
That's right.
Exactly.
Quiet is gone.
But it's a disturbing din.
I feel it's a refuge, right?
Address yourself to your readings.
The only refuge around here is the last refuge of the scoundrels.
The last refuge of the scoundrels.
It's a refuge.
Okay.
Who else should I see?
Well, I kind of thought, I already alerted a couple of staff members.
I could take you up to the... take you around and maybe...
This is a result, really, of one person's so-called vision, and it is not representing... He always talks about we.
It's really him.
It does not represent the vision, quote-unquote, of librarians.
And way back in the earthquake time, when I said, you know, at this point, I really think what he had planned, the reorganization of the old name, was a poor idea, and I was quoted in the papers,
that I was transferred out of the main because I did not agree with, and this is a quote from the assistant city librarian, because I didn't agree with the organizational library.